language2.0 livelab changes (#1)
rajapratapk/analytics-ai-fork-for-lang-svc2.0: oci-artificial-intelligence/ai-language/translation/translation.md

> # Lab 1: Translating Text with the Language Translate Model

Reviewer: TASK1?

Author: Lab 3, Corrected

## Introduction

OCI Language Translate is a multilingual neural machine translation service to translate text from one language into another.
In this session will introduce you to OCI Language Translation and also help you to get familiar with the translation console.

> ***Estimated Lab Time***: 10 minutes

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

> - Understand a high level overview of the OCI Language Translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use OCI Console to perform text translation.
- Use OCI Python SDK to perform text translation
```

Author: Done

- Show how to use OCI Console to translate text.

### Prerequisites

- A Free tier or paid tenancy account in OCI (Oracle Cloud Infrastructure)

> - Tenancy is whitelisted to be able to use OCI Language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Language policies are configured as per LAB-1 <provide hyper link>
```

Author: Done

> ## **TASK 1:** Translate Text through OCI Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **TASK 1:** Translate Text using OCI Console
```

Author: Done

1. **Navigate to OCI Language Translation**: 

    Log into OCI Cloud Console. Using the Burger Menu on the top left corner, navigate to Analytics and AI menu and click it, and then select Language item under AI services.

    ![OCI Menu Screen](./images/navigate-to-ai-language-menu.png " ")

    Using the Navigation Menu on the top left corner, navigate to Text Translation menu under Pretrained models and click it.

    ![OCI Language Screen](./images/navigate-to-translation.png " ")

> 2. **Enter Text:** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Specify text details** 
```

Author: Done

>     Select source lanaguge and enter your text into the text box to translate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Specify the text, source language and target language.
```

Author: Done

    ```
    ```

    <copy>El Seattle Sounders Football Club anunció recientemente que estaba buscando un socio tecnológico para proporcionar una solución confiable, escalable y segura que pudiera ingerir, procesar y almacenar datos de juegos y jugadores. </copy>
    ```
    ```
    <copy>En 2020, des personnes dans le monde entier ont commencé à travailler à distance en raison de la pandémie de COVID-19. Par conséquent, les outils collaboratifs tels que la vidéoconférence, les e-mails et les discussions sont devenus essentiels, car ils permettent aux employés d'effectuer leur travail à domicile. </copy>
    ```

3. **Click Translate:** 

>     You can translate text selecting the target language from the drop down menu and by clicking Translate button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Click on Translate button to see translated text.
```

Author: Done

    
    ![OCI Language Text Analytics - Translate button](./images/translate-button.png " ")

4. **Viewing Results:**

    After you translate your text, the Language service displays the translated text.

    ![Translation result](./images/translate-result.png " ")

## **TASK 2:** Translate Text with Python SDK

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the sample code below and update required variables to translate text using Python SDK
```

Author: Done

> For setup, please refer Lab 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pre Requisites:
For using Python SDK, please follow steps described in Lab 1 <link> to fulfill per-requisites
```

Author: Done

Follow below steps to run Python SDK:

#### 1. Download Python Code.

```Python
<copy>
import oci

ai_client = oci.ai_language.AIServiceLanguageClient(oci.config.from_file(),

>                                                     service_endpoint="https://language.aiservice-preprod.us-ashburn-1.oci.oraclecloud.com")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                                    )
```

Author: Done

key1 = "doc1"
key2 = "doc2"
text1 = "The Indy Autonomous Challenge is the worlds first head-to-head, high speed autonomous race taking place at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway"
text2 = "OCI will be the cloud engine for the artificial intelligence models that drive the MIT Driverless cars."

doc1 = oci.ai_language.models.TextDocument(key=key1, text=text1, language_code="en")
doc2 = oci.ai_language.models.TextDocument(key=key2, text=text2, language_code="en")
documents = [doc1, doc2]

> compartment_id = "ocid1.tenancy.oc1..aaaaaaaaih4krf4od5g2ym7pffbp6feof3rx64522aoxxvv3iuw3tam6fvea" #TODO Provide your compartmentId here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compartment_id = <COMPARTMENT_ID> #TODO Provide your compartmentId here
```

Author: Done

batch_language_translation_details = oci.ai_language.models.BatchLanguageTranslationDetails(documents=documents, compartment_id=compartment_id, target_language_code="de")
output = ai_client.batch_language_translation(batch_language_translation_details)
print(output.data)
</copy>
```

Download [code](./files/translationPythonSDK.py) file and save it your directory.

> #### 2. Execute the Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Done

Navigate to the directory where you saved the above file (by default, it should be in the 'Downloads' folder) using your terminal and execute the file by running:

```
<copy>python translationPythonSDK.py</copy>
```

> #### 3. Result

Reviewer: remove ###2 and ###3 as they are trivial

Author: Removed
